Series 1 - 80%, Series 2 - 90%, Series 3 - 100%, Series 4 - 100% - Perfectly written and acted character transformation. One of the best season finales of all time. --- Season 5 has been an incredible ride so far, and I can't wait for the summer to finish. --- That's it. The end of one of the best shows ever, and it's got a great ending that poor Dexter can only quietly envy. And the comparison is simply unavoidable, if only because of the certain "similarity" of the final scene, which highlights the gulf between the quality of the ending of Breaking Bad and Dexter. Walter White definitely deserved such a great ending. Season 5 - 100 %
All hail Heisenberg. I was originally at 5*, but the 4th series just doesn't pull anymore. Tedious, drawn out dialogue, zero plot, improbable twists sucked out of thin air (tripping on the carpet = lol/wtf). Plus an overblown finale, totally crashing the whole previous "seriousness" to hell (Two-Face huh?). Until then, though, seriously the best series out there right now. Take all ten. EDIT: Season 5 is the best thing to come out of the series field after season 2 of Alias. Back to 5* with a clear conscience. Will miss you Heisenberg.
Best sequel series I've ever seen. Fascinating complex transformation of the main character.
A television series written and filmed with the same conscientiousness with which Walt cooks Blue Sky. The following selection of SPOILERoid notes I took during all five seasons is not intended to be a comprehensive analysis, but an analysis of several sub-areas of the series to at least partially reveal what makes Gilligan's achievement unique. ___ The development of the narrative seems throughout to be determined by Heisenberg's uncertainty principle. Despite the assumed direction of development (from victim of external circumstances to manipulative monster), it is impossible to know in advance when things will go wrong and who will undergo what character transformation. Breaking Bad fails to meet audience expectations by rejecting established narrative schemas. It unsettles us with its efforts to make ongoing events more likely, creating the impression that almost anything can happen. However, it does not discourage us from forming our own hypotheses. On the contrary, the series itself, through the "foreshadowing" scenes in the prologue, encourages us to actively insert what we see into the whole narrative. The tension is not only drawn from the viewer's uncertainty about what will happen, but also from the knowledge of what each character knows or does not know. The filmmakers work with multiple narrative foci, juxtaposing the conflicting interests of characters who often have to face risks coming from different spheres (immediate and extended family, institutions, the underworld). The transformation of the perception of the characters is linked to what we know about them, how much we respect them and how many moral transgressions we are willing to forgive. It is fascinating to watch the selfless "spotting" of heroes. You'd be hard pressed to find a character in recent series without guilt. Raising the stakes forces characters to think more ahead, making them better players. Self-stylization and overacting don't go down well with Jesse in particular, who may be the weakest player, but also the figure to whom the strongest cathartic effect is tied in the last episode. ___ The real rival of most characters is their own potential, which they either fail to fulfill (through their own fault and that of the system that repeatedly betrays them) or fulfill at an inadequate cost. The heroes of the narrative are also united by their ambiguity. Each can step out of his or her role, whether accepted willingly or under pressure from the environment. Because nothing is fixed and we are forced to judge any character's decision in the context of his or her previous actions, one can also question Walt's admission in the last episode that the family was merely a cover for his criminal career (which he therefore embarked on for selfish motives, not to provide for his wife and son). Was his motivation really anything other than power and money at first? The use of parallels (Hank the surrogate father of Walt Junior, Walt the surrogate father of Jesse) helps us to rethink our view of the characters, leading us to see similar situations in different contexts and highlighting some of the key themes of the series. ___ Through his career as a drug kingpin, Walt vents his aggression accumulated from many sources. He has not lived up to expectations as the breadwinner of the family, nor has he lived up to expectations as a fatherly authority figure (the son gets advice on how to be a man from Hank). Moreover, he compensates for the failure of his own body with his second life. He also earns money outside the system because he has been excluded from it due to his illness. For as a man with cancer signifies death ("other"), he is rejected by society. Cooking gingerbread allows him to triumph over surrogate father and husband figures and to capitalize on his exceptional intellect, at least outside the official structures. His belief in the traditional or obligatory family model does not leave him for long. It is only in the end, unrestrained, omnipotent and omnibenevolent, that he can give full vent to his potential, transforming himself completely into the man he was perhaps destined to become from the beginning.____ The extraordinary thematic range of the series makes Breaking Bad rewarding material for sociological studies of the anxieties of contemporary America (drugs, money, terminal illness, an ineffective social security system). Those who want to break through cannot honor the law and forever build around themselves a façade of a decent citizen out of hundreds of little lies. The series relativizes many times the separation of "big" lies with a wide reach from small family lies. The essence of both is hypocrisy. Instead of learning to be more open, the characters become increasingly adept at constructing alternate worlds and inventing fictional stories (Walt as a gambler). As everyone gradually discovers, however, the real drama is taking place behind these parrot-like backdrops. It's fascinating to see how the writers guide the characters through a multi-level web of lies, and how they handle their varying awareness of the existence of certain worlds and its supposed inhabitants (the family, the underworld, the job are all distinctly different at first, too, artistically, but gradually all "darken" into the same color palette). ___ Breaking Bad is also immensely rewarding in terms of style, which changes not only within episodes but also within individual scenes (by recontextualizing and/or revealing new information, we are led to perceive a scene from a different perspective). The filmmakers have played with the graphic continuity of shots, the unfolding of action in multiple plans, or the creation of meanings through camera position and movement, far more than any Hollywood studio with a budget a hundred times larger. I could watch Scorsese's overdone editing collages until I was dumbfounded, the emblematic space of New Mexico hasn't been used for such a thrilling dusting off of classic western motifs (the train robbery) in years, and the last episode can boldly compete with some of Hitchcock's better thrillers in terms of level of direction. There's a lot more that could be written, but the tone would remain just as celebratory. In fact, Breaking Bad contains so many positives that I find it petty to mention the few minor flaws. It's not often that a series allows you to be virtually uncritical. Thanks for that! 100% Interesting comments: DaViD´82, Radek99, Toj, pleonasm
Best series I've ever seen. Novel structure, perfectly thought out story from the first to the last episode. Fantastic actors, all of them without exception, and displays of first-rate direction.
Seeing 'Gingerbread Dad' makes me want to extract the ricin from the beans, but that's about my only complaint. The first show since The Wire that honestly fascinates me with its attention to plot sophistication, fictional characters and, most importantly, absolute unpredictability. I gave up on guessing the plot halfway through the second season because there's no point. And the way Walter White, who learns the value and brevity of human life from day to day, pendulates on both sides of the law while (un)consciously pulling people around him is perhaps even better than in Dexter. Mainly because the moments when we realise that he's really becoming evil are conveyed by the filmmakers through utter banality. Like ordinary marital conversations like, "I'm not in danger. I'm the danger!"
Creator: Vince Gilligan ..
I'm the bad guY. _
As usual, when I had to spend my sickness at home, I was drawn to a series which, for various reasons, I didn't catch from the beginning, but kept hearing successful reFerences or recommendations from friends, until I got into it on that particular occasion. In the past, I've put two seasons of LOST in two weeks, or at other times nearly 5 seasons of HIMYM - now the choice is Breaking Bad, where I've crammed almost four seasons into just 11 days. ___ And an excellent 44 episodes! I won't go into the differences between the series, because I still find their quality consistent, their choice and development of characters interesting and acceptable, their content universally important, entertaining and thrilling. Yes, JEsse Pinkman is an instant bullet in the head several times even from the nearest one, the beginning of the 4th series was annoyingly slow, but these are just crumbs that (and rather in a bigger way) befall every series. Here, after all this time, the marks on quality are still miNimal. Yo.
Put a deaf, crying child with a grenade-torn leg and an untreated festering wound in front of me, and I'll shrug and go buy burgers at the nearest mecca. Take me to a charity event for abused animals in cages, where there will be suffering dogs with their noses torn off by firecrackers, dying hamsters cut in half by axes, or exotic parrots with their wings cut off, and I'll say "I'll take this eyeless monkey" and go home happy. Show me a ragged pregnant woman covered in bruises with a change box at her feet and I'll burst out laughing. But show me a TV show with a perpetually boozing, stoned buffoon named Jessie Pinkman and I'll melt with love, emotionally disintegrate, and auction off an authentic Los Pollos chicken pouch for ten thousand dollars. Without torture, after The Rose Garden, the best drama series my dilated pupils have ever had the pleasure of seeing.
Definitely a dramatic overachiever, but it's the uncompromising final episodes that pull it up to fifth star.
Series 1 - 80% ...
2nd series - 90% ... 3rd series - 100% ... 4th series - 100% ... 5th series - 90% ... In short, the best broadcast series of our time and one of the best series of all time, taking full advantage of the space that a long-running series offers for elaboration and, most importantly, terrific development of the main character ... All Hail Heisenberg!
1st series - 90%, 2nd series - 90%, 3rd series - 90%, 4th series - 100%, 5th series, part I. - 100%, 5th series, part II. - 100%.
A fascinating defiance of the main character's fate! American beauty loosened into the length of a TV series. Breaking Bad is one of the best series of our time and as such offers much - a characteristically postmodern television form combining a syncretism of influences (a Mexican folk band at the beginning of one episode singing the myth of the protagonist, a TV commercial for chicken specials at the beginning of another, the purchase of new cars in the form of a video clip, etc.) and different genres, in which the filmmakers combine both an audience-appealing storyline revolving around the production and distribution of drugs and subplots involving real-life depictions of life and problems in contemporary America, i.e. as diverse a genre as a drug thriller, social drama and family drama can be. In doing so, the genre symbiosis is very functional and doesn't feel out of place for a moment. Moreover, the therapy pillow scene from the first season is one of the most depressing situations I've ever seen staged on television, as is the absolute transformation of the positive hero into a negative one. And, as with one of the few series, I had absolutely no idea during the viewing where the initially so transparent story would go...after the final episode of series 4, I am once again completely blown away... By the way, the women portrayed in this series are truly from another planet. It's just a pity about the unfortunate choice of the Czech distribution title. PS: Episode s04e10 is a really big hit... and also the knowledge that Walt's blue meth can be bought in the Czech Republic (s05e08), we have a pretty pathetic reputation over there... Series 1: 100% Series 2: 100% Series 3: 90% Series 4: 100% Series 5: 90%
(s)Fulfilling the American dream through the periodic table of elements and Heisenberg's uncertainty principle in a world that is not black and white, but that does not mean that there is no black and white. When a mid-life crisis lands badly on an over-qualified good-natured, stunted chemistry teacher for whom family is everything (his wife is an accountant by compulsion as well as a failed novelist with few published stories, his son has cerebral palsy and is going through an awkward puberty, and there's another unplanned child on the way); it's an undeniably powerful subject in its own right. When fate, in the form of advanced cancer, adds its own; it's doubly powerful. It's clear that a combination of satire and drama is in play here, with a precisely dosed admixture of unadulterated black humour. And what if this cornered sub-pantophile decides, in the name of providing for his family, to "throw off his slippers and declare a vendetta against fate"; that is, to take it into his own hands for once (and for the last time) in his life... So he embarks on a slippery slope of crime as a 'drug cooker' alongside his former pupil, by then a slacker and buffoon, Jesse; resulting in an uncompromisingly raw, cynical crime drama where you'll find yourself breathing in the rhythm set by the filmmakers, not the one your body would demand. The only respite (which is no complaint; it sits there) comes at the beginning of season three, when the creators give one last chance for the characters to get off the runaway train and return to their original "crime-free" routine. And while the whole thing may seem like a disparate mishmash of genres and themes, the opposite is true. Uncommonly well-written (characters and plot; pity only the exceptions that prove the rule, such as the "Lost-esque" intertwining of fates during the season two finale) and conveyed (the prologues of perhaps all the episodes are something no one has even come close to yet), and at the same time, throughout, not shorn of its unsettlingly chilling air and very cinematic veneer (it's distinctly Coen-McCarthy-esque); and not just in the context of a television production. Anyway, there's a hitch. It's not for those who require identification with a character. You'll understand (however disapprovingly) the characters and their actions at all times, but after all, the more the schoolteacher pedant Walt, who you'd give a high five to on the street, "becomes" a Heisenberger who inspires respect and inspires unadulterated fear (If that's true, if you don't know who I am, then maybe your best course would be to tread lightly.), it becomes all the more clear that it is impossible to root for him either, because he stops seeing the forest for the tree, thus fatally hurting not only those around him, but also those closest to him. Above all, however, he is never and under no circumstances a victim of coincidence, his surroundings or the writers; he is always fully responsible for everything that happens to him. And so it is with everything here. Anyway, anyone who tunes in to the wave of the series has a more than decent chance of discovering a hot favourite for their one all-time favourite episode across the series (there are countless candidates over the seasons, but the clear winner is the Ozymandias episode), the best scene across the series (there are even more candidates than for episodes, but the winner is the Crawl Space finale), and indeed the all-time top spots on the series chart.P.S. And as the very end is devoid of any disappointment, it does feel like Walt came off cheaply in spite of all the horrors compared to others. The full ending simply lacks a certain unapologetic uncompromisingness that, for example, elevates The Shield to the pedestal of the best and most memorable finale ever.
I think after four seasons, I can make a judgement. And there's gonna be a lot of spoilers. Because Breaking Bad has its own very interesting style. I really like the fact that it's totally on-going, there's no time gaps in the plot between episodes or between series. Everything always ties in nicely. It's got a great duo of main characters, the chemical MacGyver Walt and the permanently high or mentally damaged Jesse. The plot keeps evolving too, and especially Walter and Jesse's rise up the criminal hierarchy is delivered pretty slowly but surely, so you get used to it and find it kind of believable. Some of the episodes and scenes are really perfect (the crawling Mexicans at the beginning of season three, the hysterical Walt when he finds out he doesn't have the money to "disappear" at the end of season four, or Stay out of my territory). It's really exciting, unfortunately there are some very weak episodes. Like everything with Hank's wife pisses me off and bores me. And there's some unnecessary stuff (the plane crash) and sucked out of the bag (the lily of the valley thing, when did he plant that on the kid?) But it's a very good show. And the best character is by far Saul Goodman. P.S: after the fifth season, I have to admit that it's rare to see a series this nicely wrapped up. It deserves a discharge.
No matter how good the quality is, if you hear Comic-Con's "Best show/episode/finale ever" about a show from all sides, it can frustrate or even discourage you from watching it altogether. If there's one show currently, other than Game Of Thrones, that can "boast" a similar hype, it's Breaking Bad. Walt, a downtrodden family dad with an undervalued job as a high school chemistry teacher, learns that he has lung cancer, and under the influence of that discovery, and after meeting a former student, the troubled Jesse Pinkman, decides to make the family financially secure by cooking drugs. From start to finish I saw parallels with several other shows, at least The Big C, Weeds and Dexter. While The Big C dealt with the realities of coping with illness and the effect it has on character development, Weeds dealt with how one lie and transgression of societal rules and norms piles on top of another like an avalanche until it takes on comically absurd proportions, and Dexter dealt with the reconciliation of the title antihero's double life between his family and his hobby, Breaking Bad deals with everything equally. This may make it feel overcomplicated, but thanks to an intelligent script that is primarily concerned with the transformation of the (relatively few) main characters, the opposite is true. The most significant change of all is, of course, the series' central character Walt, who, as the title suggests, goes from good guy to evil over time. Walter White is thoroughly unsympathetic, but unfortunately not most of the time because of his development (which is well-written, though not nearly as well as is often mentioned, if only because it takes place rather quickly and abbreviated, and we see the final Heisenberg at about the end of the second season and his character doesn't change much further). While watching it, I thought more than once that Breaking Annoying would be a more apt title; I honestly can't remember the last time I saw a series with such an insufferably annoying and stupid central character. That's also where my biggest complaint is directed. Walt IS supposed to come across as an intelligent man, even a genius and a criminal manipulator, yet from about halfway through the second to the middle of the fifth season, he makes one extremely stupid and completely unnecessary decision after another (e.g. the MINISPOILER argument with the police officer/arrest in episode 3x02 END SPOILER). Yet his portrayer Bryan Cranston, with his excellent acting, manages to wring the necessary sympathy out of the viewer at key moments. The effect of Walt's transformation on the development of the other characters is then probably the best element of BB ever, with the amoral con man Jesse (the excellent Aaron Paul) or the ignorant wife Skyler (the wonderful Anna Gunn) becoming the most interesting of the current series' characters as time goes on. In my personal rankings, Breaking Bad has certainly fallen short of its reputation as the best show ever, even constantly teetering on the line between three and four stars until the last season, but with the satisfying ending came the realization of an undeniably quality series.
// "...and a man, a man provides. And he does it even when he's not appreciated, or respected, or even loved. He simply bears up and he does it. Because he's a man." How far will he go to protect the people we love? How much can people adapt to what life brings them? What is a man capable of doing when he has no choice? The treatment of all of these themes and many more in a crystal clear serial form that is unparalleled - that's Breaking Bad for me, and that's why I can't tear myself away from it. "How can something this bad be this good?"
Season 1 - 90% - All expectations turned on their head. Potentially annoying druggie con man Jesse has been my favorite character since the first scene, and potentially annoying caring Skyler positively surprises me with every decision she makes. I want to know as much as I can about both of them, I want to see more of the main character's ability to dig himself out of the worst messes, and ultimately I just want to see where a show like this can go. I didn't find the superficiality and false glitz of the drug trade here, quite the opposite. To begin with, this is an honestly troubled family drama that is unlucky/lucky in the kind of backdrop it can take place in. My greatest wish is that it continues to do so in such a civil manner.Season 2 - 70% - I enjoyed Walt struggling with his own morals in the name of family, I'm not amused when he tramples on family and its values and uses the original goals as an excuse. With sympathy for the main character, the quality also drops in direct proportion, as the constant arrogant and uncouth behaviour towards his (however stupid and naive) partner breaks my heart, as does Walt's decision making in key situations, see the obvious moral dilemma at the end of the penultimate Phoenix episode. And it's a shame, because the potential is still there, the clouds are solidly darkening prospectively, and Hank is digging himself out of the passer and into the position of the show's most charismatic cop. Season 3 - 80% - There's a convoluted path from some acts, but no path from others. After the events of the previous season, the protagonist is still a deserved viewer magnet for me, but I can't keep my fingers crossed for him, mainly because of his lack of self-reflection and sufficient repentance. In contrast, the underrated Pinkman definitely becomes the show's workhorse in every way, thanks to Aaron Paul's perfectly civil performance. Still, it's not until the final couple of episodes, during which I almost didn't breathe with nervousness, that the show returns to an imaginative and unprecedentedly suspenseful level, fully appreciating Giancarlo Esposito's almost antimimic performance. Breaking Bad met this just as the vaunted fourth season was getting underway, and there were times when I thought any more dialogue from Walt and Skyler on the subject of "car wash" would perhaps kill me. Fortunately, the second half, which again cuts very deep into the Jesse-Walt relationship and, more recently, Jesse-Gus and Jesse-Mike, takes a very different approach to the tension, presents the dramatic point of the last few episodes very cleverly, and it's therefore a great shame that Vince Gilligan often fails to hold back and lets the impressive scenes go too far. Because building up a sense of overwhelming pressure from all sides is, like a season earlier, oppressive to the point of madness. Season 5, Part One - 80% - Unbearable Walt. I've never understood his likability, and now that the subtle psychological terror towards the depressed Skyler is finally catching up to her, I'm sick of Heisenberg's ranting. Although there are many surprises in Bryan Cranston even in his fifth year, the development of his character has disgusted me for a long time to come. I commend Gilligan for that, as well as the definitive coming of age of Jesse and the pervasive oppressive sense of the inevitable beginning of the end, led by Dead Freight, arguably the best episode of the entire series. Season 5, Part Two - 90% - The best in the end. If it weren't for a few missteps, but at the same time following the development of the series as a whole, this might have been an absolute rating, but I still got an eight episode run that leaves such a strong impression that I'd easily forget the weaker periods. It's here, when everything goes to shit and literally all the characters are on the brink of disaster, that we can best see who has grown closest to our hearts. And when I think back on Breaking Bad, I'll always be grateful to it for giving me one perfectly complex character who has skyrocketed to one of my favorite series characters ever. But unlike most (forever misunderstood by me) viewers, he's not the narcissist Heisenberg, Walter White, the self-absorbed misfit, whatever we call him. In my eyes, it's the broken and eternally stumbling through life addict and misfit, Jesse Pinkman.
I wasn't hooked right away, the break between my first and second season lasted 6 years... But if you're unsure at the beginning too, it's definitely worth chewing on! Because progress - each season is a cut above the rest, Jesse is less annoying (I don't like junkies and drugs as a theme in general), the characters and story become more and more fleshed out, and then the finale is a complete top in every aspect, especially in terms of intensity, tension and emotion. There's a lot of imagery and impressions, the (un)appealing New Mexico itself does a lot, but above all I liked the gradual descent into darkness in the character of the main couple; especially Walt and his transformation into his lying, manipulative and cold-hearted self is a very nourishing and gritty spectacle (x). *We all live double-lives to some extent... S01 70% S02 75% S03 80% S04 85% S05 95%, El Camino 75% ♪♫
1st series 80%, 2nd series 90%, 3rd series 100%, 4th series 100%, 5th series 100%
A promising premise and its amazing development into an intense and "realistic" drug story of Walt - a man breathing through the screen, whose character development could be an example of textbook cinematic storytelling. From shy teacher to charismatic underworld boss ("Say my name!")... I can't stop marveling at how believable and distinctive Walt's "travails" are, and how they make his character change without anything seem contrived, and without the series slipping into unnecessary megalomania - even with millions of dollars flowing across the screen, the focus of the series doesn't go beyond the "humble" family circle and the experiences of individuals. My special praise and respectful compliments, then, go to the fifth series for its Sopranos-like portrayal of the mafia milieu. PS: The penultimate episode is a work of art! 9/10
